Okay,
This is the time about central logging.
This is one off the script that,
um a lot of places have it in place and a lot off.
Um,
companies would like to have some kind off automation tool around the logging.
How is how it works is you have every Lennix machine has war log messages,
right?
And you would actually have to go into the machine,
log into the machine to view those those logs and to see if they are any,
er,
messages or failures or anything.
So you you probably would have to do that multiple times if you have multiple servers or
did you have to do probably for 1000 times?
If you're thousands servers and you have to go and be I the file tested grew up so many
things.
What if I tell you you could write a script,
a central logger script?
What is going to do is gonna trace the war log messages.
Well,
not just trace like entire fall.
It actually is going to sit and wait for the new line generation to log in to the war log
messages.
And as soon as it comes in,
it is actually going to,
ah,
filter route,
whether it has ever messages or not,
and it's gonna put it out if it matches your criteria.
If you are looking for Onley,
let's say error messages of failures.
Then it's only gonna grab for that key words.
And one,
once it finds those keywords,
is gonna push that out to a file.
And you could read that file later on by yourself or then.
Or you could actually leave that script to run it in the background while it's running its
keep out putting your,
UM,
error messages or your failures related lines from your log messages to,
ah file.
And then you could go in and read it,
and you just have to do is run in the background.
Or you could third step you could do is you could as soon as those file is created,
you could create another script and tell if it's gonna wake up like every 15 minutes or 20
minutes and tell the users or administrators or managers that hate There is.
This file has been generated,
and it has thes many errors,
and failures are,
of course,
you could go another step,
which is to schedule descript through the Cron job,
so if you look at it backwards,
you have a script that is scheduled to wake up every 15 minutes.
That's group will have to notify a user if a file exists and that file that exists that has
your information that you're looking for,
like errors,
failures shut down,
off line or anything that you have specified.
And those messages are coming from where from War log must.
So we will create this grip.
It's a little long scribe.
You'll create this script step by step,
and you could actually implement that script in your job.
If you are at Lenox capacity right now and you will see definitely that this has this will
make your life so much easier than you actually have.
Um,
these Aramis is coming in through the email without you having to log into every machine.
No,
let's go straight again to our machine.
Let's clear our screen,
and I want you to this time become route because in order to read war log messages,
you have to be Route Vidal route.
You cannot read y log messages that does not have re permissions for anyone else,
but Okay.
Here.
You have to,
um,
start writing a script.
But before you write a script,
I just have to tell you that the way you could look at the logs is by doing tail.
Um,
let's in minus 10 or log messages,
right?
Most of time.
People would do that to see if there are any messages,
or what they do is they do cat such war log messages,
and they will just grow up for minus i to skip case lower case.
You see,
I have so many air messages on my machine,
it came up.
I would have known if this air messages exist unless I come in and log into the machine and
actually run this command.
But is that something that you want to do it every day and spending so much of your time
just looking for log our messages.
And if you have 100 system,
then forget about it.
You going to spend all your date and it's gonna affect your performance significa and you
don't want Okay,
so,
for you,
for that you have to write a script and to write a script I'm gonna pick ofhis directory of
men in slash route and here I have few other ones.
I already have one script that I created earlier.
It's called Log Tail and I will actually use that script.
But I will tell you exactly how it works.
Let me clear the screen.
So lock tale is a script that I have written her.
And then you will see here a skip it real quick.
But I want you to put it in the information that we always need.
Date description.
This will log on the fine key model.
Okay,
so let's get into this.
This is what the script first,
the script is going to tail with minus f n zero option.
Till is a command that will tail the last error messages from a file.
So not error message.
Any messages from and then use place?
If I minus f,
um,
this is going to tail the live incoming trump with minus with minus end.
Zero option.
What is telling it on Lee?
Look for the latest new incoming message.
Don't look forward messages that previously in this in this law,
which is fine,
because when you gonna run it,
You don't want to start from the beginning you don't want it to keep getting the same error
messages.
Okay,
so I'm sure you're familiar with this command.
You do our log messages.
Next thing right here,
you put a pipe and you do wild read line.
What this is doing is while it is doing tail,
if you leave it right here,
then it is going nowhere because you're running a shell.
But you want to put it somewhere,
right?
So you do a wild script.
The reason you do while is because you wanted to run disco in a loop.
Meaning it doesn't stop,
just keeps running and running and running until you actually go in and stop this.
So what is doing is you are telling the script to run the script while in a while,
loop and read the line.
And what is the line?
Line is our variable.
And what is coming inside the line?
Whatever the output from this is going to go into this very now you clear here Now,
once we have all those messages coming in in this line,
what should we do?
Right?
What should we do?
Do echo that line first.
Awful.
Whatever is inside of this variable accord again once you echo it,
which is gonna It's gonna read it right.
Then it will grow.
Igra.
Pekar up is another command.
Ah,
it's ah efficient command that will grab multiple key.
So eager minus I and I have key words here.
It's refused.
Invalid error fail lost shut down off line.
These are the key words that I have gathered in the past from my experience.
And I know these keywords actually,
um,
work.
And these are the type of keywords and mostly coming to the system and valuable to the
system in Mr Didn't find out.
So anyway,
whatever comes in and it will grow for all these messages,
Harry putting in if commit What he's saying is,
if statement is if dollar question mark meaning if the exit status is equal to zero,
meaning if it does find something any of these key word.
Only then only then echoed that output from this to,
ah,
file called temp filter.
That's my own created file.
I wanted to put into this filter once it's been put in fi and done so that's save that file
.
But I run that file,
you'll see it will run an infinite loop unless I actually put in some kind of logar message
in it,
and then it will put it into the filter fall.
So let's ah,
control,
See out if it And if you notice,
where is it putting its putting into slash temp filter messages,
right?
I ran this command previously,
and it has some off the,
um messages.
And when you do cat filtered messages,
you will see some off the air mess you that I sent through the logger that came in here,
Um,
the longer command to run it.
I think it's,
ah me do from my history breath for longer.
And you see right here this is a logger.
If you run any of the command that will go into the war log messages because let's say if
you run longer,
Dashti,
her test entry are put in like Imron is testing and hit.
Enter This entry is going into the war log messages.
How do you verify it?
You do tail minus five,
Warlock.
Us.
You see,
it's right here.
It is being recorded because longer tells it to record to know if I do the same thing again
.
I run the log till script and now I open up another terminal Come route.
And here if I run that logger command and I will put in Imron is testing again and hit.
Enter.
Sorry.
Be exactly Log on,
Ryan is testing better?
Okay,
you see,
as soon as I ran this the lock tail also through the message on the screen And I'm sure it
has also logged in to are this file cat I was hardly slash temps.
I felt a message.
So let's verified.
You see,
it has added that right here into our miss.
So that's what happens every time.
Ah,
error message comes in,
it will be log in here.
So if I also have its do our cat log tail If I do invalid So let's do longer instead of
error put in invalid,
it's He picks up that Imron is testing invalid uh,
key and her As soon as they hit enter,
you see in the back.
It also listed that into our log messages and then you read the file file.
Where is pushing it?
Too clear.
You see,
it has also added that to your slash temp session.
Okay,
Now you see one step is done.
You have,
Actually,
if you notice right here,
minimize this.
You have actually created the script to trace log.
You run the script in the background.
Next step is now,
you see,
on my prompt is not given me back stuff.
Why?
Because this script that I've written it is going in a loop,
and it's not going to give me my prom back.
So in order for me to run that script in the background,
I would have to run the script with no help and m percent.
So just do control,
see out of it and hit up arrow key.
And this time I'm gonna specify no meaning.
Don't bother my terminal.
Give me my terminal back log till and just put em person.
Why is that?
No up and m percent?
That's how it is.
That's how you run the commands in the background.
So you hit.
Enter and,
uh did it.
War Lord second,
no log tail.
10% and percent.
Yeah,
Sorry.
11 Empress's.
Okay,
So once you run,
it could actually do PS minus F and graft for log tail.
Your script and you will see it is running right you know,
here's the running two scripts because it's one is it's reading.
And second,
it's putting into a file and gripping poor error messages and involved.
So if you want to bring it to the foreground,
I believe it's for around something that brings anyway.
So whenever you run this script,
you have to run it.
This command,
no hub slash routes that Locke tail and percent,
and it will put it in the back.
Next thing is right here we have user admin notification.
Now,
what if,
um,
it actually generates the file and put it into the user?
Ah,
it actually throws that message to as user email.
So for that,
I believe I also have a script.
Um,
no,
actually,
I don't.
I would have to create a new script,
and I will name it.
Uh,
log alert.
Um,
before I do that,
let me copy that law tail to log.
So this right?
I have to type variable in description.
B,
I log alert description.
This script will send an email to administrator Modified.
OK,
so now let's get rid off everything this favor.
You are typing back.
First thing is,
if you have multiple users that you wanted to send this log to,
Um,
instead of putting their email one by one,
you could put them in a very So the way I do it is I put in,
like if your group name is,
let's say I t.
And now put coat and the email address Imron underscore envoy at hotmail dot com Comma,
let's say,
peter dot um says,
uh gmail dot com coat close.
So I'm just picking to users right now.
If you want to specify more than that,
you just put comma and the email address.
Another advantage of putting the emails in a container or in a variable is because if a
user leaves the company are a new user joins the company,
you don't have to modify your script.
You could make a mistake.
You could simply modify this.
Very.
Okay,
so now are variable is defined.
Now you put if statement it is always very strong,
the next the newer option of picking is minus s.
So what we're doing it minus s is slash temp filtered messages.
What?
What I'm saying is,
first,
make sure if that file exists,
I don't want to send an empty file,
right?
If the file is there,
then I wanted to send it.
But for that let me make sure this is a crackpot Will see this Just script and just two ls
minus.
L Yes,
it is.
So the I lobular Okay,
so if you find ah,
file there in temp and file name is filtered messages,
then you cat that file sordid,
unique.
Mail it to who?
Smell it to I t.
Right.
But also put in some subject is,
um cyst log messages and then send it to I removed this else.
Don't do anything.
Okay,
Let me go.
Worried again?
I know.
Probably typed it fast.
Oven or fast.
You probably don't know what I just did again.
I specified the email address is put in a container.
Then I drowned the command If and what if is doing is making sure this file exists Because
again,
you don't want to send an empty fall.
If it does exist,
then what do you want to do?
You want script to do is to cat that fall.
Okay?
Did cat then sorted?
Why am I sorting it?
Because I want to unique.
All right.
But why are you sneaking it?
Because what happens if you have 10 messages?
10 error messages that are the same one,
Let's say error Jews,
Or can a log in address music?
Analog in hever using analog.
You don't want to view the three repetitive same error messages you just wanted to know one
time.
So that's why I'm putting in sort.
So it will sort and unique it.
Just give me one message and I wouldn't know.
You'd have to tell me three times.
Okay,
So once you do that,
then you mail it.
Command for male is simple mail minus as for subject.
And the subject is going to say since log message,
okay.
And where is gonna go to is gonna go too.
Dollar I t.
And whose daughter i t These are the people of dull Okay,
art.
And then once you're done sending it,
then I want you to remove them.
Why I really moving the file now?
The reason of your removing that file because we do not want new messages coming in and
adding it to the same messages.
And then what will happen is we will get new messages as well as old messages.
So that's why I'm removing death.
Well,
else do nothing if there is no file and of course,
don't to anything.
Don't send any other message.
I don't even want to know.
Hey,
the file slash temp filter messages now created.
You could do that,
but you don't want to get that message every 15 minutes.
If this script is running every 15 so basically,
else and fee.
And you had done again,
If you run this script in your riel environment,
you will start getting messages.
I do not have,
um,
actual mail relay server,
which is going to actually send out males outside to my lab environment.
So I cannot test the script.
But again,
I have tested this script in my job in my previous jobs.
And it works perfect art.
Save it and change mod a plus x lobular.
All right,
so now you you know,
we have to script One is long tail.
2nd 1 in Logar lock tail will continue running forever until you actually stop.
Long alert will run on Lee when you want to view those messages and you want to send an e
mo with those messages now,
you could go into your machine every time in London.
Run log alert.
But again,
it's our pilot attack.
So the last thing we have to do it right here is scheduled the script through Cron job and
to schedule the Scripture con job,
I'm sure you know,
you just have to type Cron tab minus e to edit it and you specify Let's say if you want to
run this every 15 minutes,
you'll do gastric slash 15 every day,
every month and so and so slash root slash log.
Oh,
and this script is run every 15 course.
I don't want to run it because this is my test environment.
All just headed it,
and I'll put it at comment out ofit.
And this is how you create a central logging script?
Um,
it took me a while when I first created it,
but eventually I read Re find it many times.
Now you have this script already done created for you.
I want you to create this script from scribe.
Don't just copy mine from the text that I have a Tash with this lesson.
This is just for your reference.
If you skip something in my video than you could always go back to my text file and and
look,
look from there,
otherwise tried everything from scratch and it will work.